[Music]
last week I asked listeners to share
their questions about humility and just
ask us anything that they wanted on
Twitter or in our Circle community and
so today Joe and I are going to talk for
a little bit about humility and then
dive into some of those questions how's
that sound Joe sounds good let's do it
excellent let's do it all right well
let's just get straight into it then so
okay so let's just start by defining you
know defining our terms again and uh
what is
humility Ah that's like the one one of
the more tricky ones that's one of the
more tricky ones to Define I think the
let me redefine or Reas the question
what is humility to
you right well it's always to me
whenever I'm defining it um so
humility the humility
the one of the quotes I loved about
humility that I listened to recently
which was on all things a show on Apple
called I think Tad lasso was the is the
name of the show and at some point one
of the characters
says um humility isn't thinking less of
yourself it's thinking of yourself
less and and I that's not exactly
perfect in my mind but it's a very pithy
way to say it which is great to me what
humility is is that that you're not
taking the world
personally I think that's a great way to
define um you could probably like the
more your ego has died probably the is
another way to say like more the more
humble you are I think the the the
difficulty that people have is that our
society has defined the ego
as somebody who's like I'm so great I'm
so awesome you guys suck somebody who's
arrogant it's like e he's got a big ego
he's got an ego is the same as saying
somebody's arrogant
nowadays and for me the definition of
ego is really any self-de that you take
personally so if you're like I'm no good
that's as much ego as I'm the best both
of them are very limiting both of those
both of those two things um take you
away from who you actually are both of
them are are uh ways that you will it's
their identities that you will defend
whether subconsciously or
consciously and so to me humility is
really where you stop defending yourself
humility is when that you see that there
is nothing to defend when you don't take
it personally when you don't
take life personally so to speak and the
weird thing about that is that the more
you're not taking life personally in a
weird way it becomes you become more
intimate with it so the the more that
life is um you're not like oh that that
hurt that offended that that I need to
defend um the more intimate you actually
become with life the more you're you're
meeting life as it is and you're the
more you are not fighting the moment and
so to me that's humility yeah yeah I
love that and one of one of the things
that kind of brought this topic up for
me was was sort of this kind of a
recognition well lot of what you spoken
to here is like what is not present when
we're humble which is like what's not
present is that we're not taking [__]
personally we're not we don't have some
identity that we're defending and what
is present that you were just kind of
alluding to there is that there's sort
of a awe there's sort of a Wonder of
what what is it that we are like who who
is it that we're going to be in this
moment we just don't know and if we just
don't know it yeah then we get to
discover
it and that's that's a very different
stance than having a self concept that
is whe whether it is the
traditionally egoic self-concept that
Society sees or if it's the I am small I
need to be small kind of
belief yeah I think that the other thing
is that when I mean intimacy there is
some on in that as well there's also
like you're feeling everything like you
like there's an intimacy in the fact
that I'm actually in touch with I am
touching life in a weird way and the in
and the the the thing about the way
society looks at you is they can look at
a very humble person as arrogant like
I'm sure in the halls of British power
when Gandhi
existed that there's people like that
arrogant little blah blah blah diaper
Weare I'm sure that was said thinking
that he can take on the British Empire
that like what arrogance um and and
there's a quote that I love that says if
you like one of the most arrogant things
you can say is I'm humble and one of the
most humble things you can say is I'm
arrogant andh and and there is something
something else happens with humility
where you can see that you're arrogant
you can see that you're an [__] you
can see that you're you're you you don't
see things clearly you can see that
you're incapable you can see but it that
doesn't mean that you then act incapable
or you act like an [__] it actually
yeah makes you more capable able it
makes you less of an [__] when you
can see those things and that's also a
part of what humility does is because
you're not defending it to the outside
world you're also not defending it to
yourself so you can see how there's a
part of you that could become a murder
or become a dictator or become an
[__] or whatever the thing yeah it's
it's it's like Carl Young
said around the darkness it's like you
can't be denying your Darkness there's
actually a deep acceptance and love in
your humility there's a love for the
thing that you would defend and so
there's a love for the darkness which
actually dissipates the darkness which
is very strange but that's that's how it
works it's like to be able to love the
fact that you're an [__] changes the
fact that you're an [__] yeah yeah so
in in the humility of being able to say
I'm arrogant I'm not defining myself as
the opposite of
arrogant and I'm able to see the truth
in the statement that I'm arrogant
without then defining Myself by that
correct right right by not then going oh
now I'm
aspects yes exactly and not take it
personally and not and not it's like
just less humility is less of an
identity there's just less
identity yeah beautiful so so briefly
before we get into these questions what
is what is humility not what is what
unless we've covered that already what
what would be
uh humility is not defining yourself as
humble humility is is um not making
yourself small humility is not
um not um trying to uh be caretaking for
others is in a way to avoid conflict
humility is not um it's not necessarily
giving your life to service frankly like
I know people like I remember my
grandmother lovely lady in so many ways
but man she was so defined by all the
service that she did she would brag
about it to her friends oh I did this
service I did that service it's like
that's not that's not humility even
though there was service there and the
service felt good but she was so deeply
defined by it and she would so deeply
defend it if you were to challenge that
aspect of her so it's it's a lot of what
Society call pause humble is actually
not
humble what it is is like conflict
avoidant often or caret takey or you
know or codependent is often or or
making yourself small and that's not
what humility
is and you can see those people will
defend oftentimes with guilt or passive
aggression or stuff like
that and while calling themselves
humble yeah and what and what's wrong
with
that
nothing nothing we all we all we all
have our identity that we're all you
know defending from time to time so
there's nothing wrong with to make it
wrong would then U be another level of
identity that you have to get through
there's nothing wrong with it it the
only thing I can say is it's
painful only thing I mean it doesn't it
doesn't give you a direct connection
with yourself it doesn't it doesn't um
have a sense of freedom to it it it
doesn't um fill your heart it doesn't
like it doesn't allow you to feel
Joy all those things but it's not it's
absolutely not wrong it's it's
human yeah yeah and so before we
get yeah yeah yeah and and you know one
of the reasons why I ask it is just that
a lot of the things that we talk about
can be can be weaponized if we're using
it to avoid our own feelings and manage
others and this could just be another
way of doing that um and so kind of the
the invitation here is anywhere we
notice that we're defending something or
we have an identity that we're holding
on to here or that we're taking [__]
personally is just some new way that we
get to explore our own deeper
Freedom yeah and with that in fact if
you start to weaponize it means you have
to have been defending something like
like you could take this and say ah
right like if you it you can't weaponize
this without starting to identify as
humble you can't be oppressed by the
definition that i g just gave and you
can't like feel bad about
yourself by the definition that I just
gave unless you also are identifying
with something so so even the idea of
like oh I'm shitty because XY and Z that
isn't
humility I am X Y and Z that's true
about me and I can love that that's
humility I'm a horrible person because I
did X Y and Z that's not humility that's
like you're still thinking about
yourself a [__] ton and you're still
heavily defined and you're still
defending that because that shame is
locking it in place and anything that
locks it in place is a form of
Defense yeah all right well with that
I'd love to dive into some of the
questions that we received from
listeners okay so our first question is
from pav hey pav yeah hey
pav uh Pavo asks how are impartiality
and humility
different
um oh impartiality is a symptom of
humility and it also if you practice
impartiality itat
humility but um just being impartial
isn't particularly a full it isn't
non-defensive in in any in many other
ways so if you're impartial what you're
doing is you're allowing life to unfold
in a way or you allowing other people
and yourself to unfold in such a way
that you're not resisting it and so that
that is a form of non
non-defense it uh it allows
people to come to you and uh be more
intimate with you be more transparent
with you because they don't feel judged
or
managed and humility in general creates
that around you as well however just
being impartial doesn't mean you can't
be defensive in other ways doesn't mean
that you can't attack in other ways and
so I would say impartiality is a
byproduct and a good practice to get to
humility but it is not the same
thing all right thank you pav and our
next question comes from Lucy Lucy asks
how do humility and disempowerment get
confused yeah so so they they get
confused disempowerment gets confused
with humility because people are
actually just being conflict avoidant or
they're being codependent which means
that they're trying to make somebody
else happy so that they don't um get
attacked or they don't get in trouble
that's General
what's happening there and so if you
take somebody like Martin Luther King
for instance and like there's a huge
amount of humility to do what he has to
do to be attacked all the time on all
levels even apparently to the point of
being shot and yet still do what's true
for him and be non- defended in it non
violent in it non attack back in it
right to do that requires a lot of
humility
and he wasn't avoiding conflict and he
wasn't saying oh you know what it would
just be humble for us
to let the white man do what he wants
with us or it would just be humble for
me to just not create a scene here or
how do I know what America really needs
you know that's for that's for the
president I am you know who am I to say
that's none of that is humility so so
it's often times
humility means that you're walking into
an attack it means that you're walking
into a situation that you know you're
going to be attacked and you're doing it
with an open heart instead of doing it
with a defensive shield and so some
people aren't conflict avoidant but they
come in ready for the attack the humble
person doesn't avoid the conflict but
comes in with an open heart comes in
undefended and that is incredibly
empowering
to to when when you actually experience
somebody maybe you could even call it
turning the other cheek when you when
you experience someone coming at
you and you're
undefended and like it's like in dosm
they talk about it like if if someone's
coming at you and a sword be water like
if you ever like see a man with a sword
attack a lake like that's what it feels
like and you're like oh [__] I'm the
lake the sword means nothing that's an
like a deeply empowering feeling but to
avoid it and to be small and to think
that you can't do it that isn't that
isn't humility that is just another
definition that's just another way to
defend yourself through
avoidance right and I I can see that
also coming up in the example of like
accepting or asking for a promotion or
receiving an award of you know like oh
no no no no like let's say you you win a
Grammy and you and your entire team did
all work maybe it's Grammy or whatever
award and yeah and you're just like oh
no no no it it was nothing you know like
right the recognition doesn't actually
get in for you or or whoever else you're
accepting the award on the behalf
of yeah and the people who are giving it
feel like okay well that was dumb why'
we do this what are we even here for
right yeah it doesn't right it doesn't
and so that that's what what's
interesting here is that other piece of
it if you allow yourself to feel for
just a moment fully deeply
empowered like oh I am completely
empowered here most people wouldn't
think that that feeling is associated
with
humility like if you actually like oh
I'm totally empowered to create the life
that I want and to create and to to
create the world that I want and I feel
deeply empowered to do that most people
are going to think oh that feeling is
really like it's a sister or a brother
of
arrogance but it it ends up not being
that at all because that that
feeling can't actually really happen
unless um there's a lot of love and not
very much fear
happening and that is so there's this
like deep well of emptiness behind that
empowerment which is the humility the
humility often feels like an
emptiness well that I think that leads
right into our to our next question and
thank thank you Lucy uh our next one is
from
Janine and Janine
asks I imagine humility is seeing the
self as empty and acknowledging the
wisdom beyond the
self perfect timing for that part of the
conversation and how can I have both an
empty self and
self-empowerment oh wow and those both
we've g a lot like the same
[Laughter]
thing I mean my answer to you would be
how would you not um how would you not
feel how could you feel humility without
feeling
empowered if it so the so typically the
empowerment the disempowerment comes
because there's a you there that's going
to get hurt or there's a you there that
is supposed to be one way or another and
if there is no you
there like you the experience is you are
everything and that's a very deeply
empowering thing so that that emptiness
comes with a a deep sense of empowerment
and and this is the it is such a weird
thing
because we have been trained most of us
have been trained not to fully step into
our power and so one of the things that
I've done that I don't know if I've ever
done on the podcast but I'd love to do
on the podcast is if anybody who's
listening closes their eyes for a minute
don't do it if you're driving obviously
but um close your eyes for a minute and
you feel what it's like to feel
unconditional
love and you put that into your body for
a minute and just what does
unconditional love feel like in your
body and
then stop feeling that for a second and
feel what it's like to be empowered
where you're not responding to fear
where you're not preparing for anything
where you you know you've got whatever
is needed to handle the next
thing you're like Superman with no
cryonite in the fact that there's
nothing to be concerned
about and you feel that deep
empowerment and then you go back to the
unconditional love for a moment and
really feel that unconditional
love for everything for
yourself and then you go back to feeling
that deep empowerment nothing to prepare
for all is right in your
world and whatever movement you can
handle it's like how different are those
two feelings and what happens if you put
those two feelings together what happens
when you actually feel that
unconditional love and that empowerment
together the sensation
of empowerment and The Sensation of
unconditional love are they're like they
they're not full without each
other you don't get to full empowerment
without unconditional love and you don't
get to full unconditional love without
empowerment and it's why you can see
yeah please go ahead go yeah am
I yeah in my system they feel like just
different aspects of the same the same
thing yeah different different flavors
of the same
feeling yeah and that and that's and
it's it's a it's such a like if you look
out into the world of the the the
paragons of unconditional love they
don't look
disempowered right you can't can you
imagine someone who's just like
unconditional loving and feels
disempowered right or somebody who's
deeply undefended and feels disempowered
but somehow or another when the dis when
the empowerment starts coming up we're
like uhoh I'm being
arrogant uh oh it feels like arrogance
and so we push it
down which brings us straight into our
next question from from David who asks
how do you know if you're being
arrogantly
humble because because you think you're
humble because you're defining yourself
that way
because um
yeah because you're putting yourself
over people with your humility you're
making yourself better
than if somebody calls you arrogant you
get
defensive all those things it's part of
the self- defin it's it's how you
compare yourself with
others that all of that is what tells
you that you're arrogantly humble yeah
it's great
question yeah thank you thank you David
so our next one next one comes from from
Edmund yeah and thank you Janine oh hey
hey Edmund yeah hey Edmund okay so
Edmund has sort of an observation and
some questions he says I learned the
Hebrew word anava earlier this week I
probably I'm sure I butchered
that uh it translates to humility but
literally means occupying our god-given
space in the world so he ask yeah that's
right several questions I'll bring two
of them here uh how do we be
and yet take up our full
space how do and then how do I promote
myself at work and my work or and how do
I promote myself and my work while being
humble once again all of that sounds
like the same the same thing yeah
yeah
so yeah I have a story about that I
remember I was doing my first um course
and it was like
18 18 people or no I'm sorry 14 people
it's my first Course and there was a
person who applied for it and I had
three people call up and say don't
accept this person three people who were
in the course I might not stay in the
course if you accept this person kind of
phone
calls and and when he came up to the
house to meet me and for me to see if he
was right for the course my kids were
like don't don't hire that guy I'm like
I'm not trying to hire we're finding out
if it's like if he's right for the
course they're like don't work with him
both my kids you know meeting them or
like no he's he's uhuh and and my whole
system was like uh I don't want to work
with this person but what I couldn't
deny was this
call it was like yeah this person is
supposed to be in your
course I didn't want it my kids didn't
want it these other people didn't want
it but I couldn't deny that there where
my call falling was the thing that was
pulling me to do the work that I do was
like yeah and you this is a person
that's supposed to be in your course and
it turned out this person was absolutely
supposed to be in the course it was a
pain in the butt for for from from time
to time but created so much for the
course and so there's this interesting
thing that happens when humility sets in
is that you follow like a call you
follow even if you don't want to do it
and the reason you follow it is because
you
realize every time I don't follow that
thing it [__] hurts so I just I just
no matter what my ego wants to say about
it I'm G to do the thing that I'm called
to do even if I disagree with it even if
I don't want to do it I do that thing
that I'm called to do and you can't
really hear that calling really without
a certain amount of
humility and and then when you hear it
you kind of reject it for a while push
up against it and then you start
realizing oh this is just going to be
painful if I if I don't do the thing
that I'm called to do so so that's how
it works is if you're called to do
something whether it's like a Gandhi
calling or it's a calling to have kids
doesn't really matter if you're called
to do it and you're feeling that then
then you follow that call even if that
call is
self-promotion even if that call is
self-promotion which makes you feel
uncomfortable I do things in our our
business all the time that make me feel
uncomfortable right like and but that's
the calling that's the thing and and
that requires a certain amount of
humility because every one of those
uncomfortable things that I do in in my
business like sand away at at my ego
they sand away at my identity
because they're they're uncomfortable
specifically because they are in the way
of my identity they're uncomfortable
because it's like I'm not the kind of
person who does X Y and Z right I'm the
kind of person who does a b and c
right
so the other thing I would say at the
same time it's there's some there's some
wisdom in the discomfort too so
self-promotion is one of those things
that is not it doesn't come to me
automatically it's something that I I I
also have to
allow and but there's also um
specifically for you Edmond there's also
self-promotion can be dangerous to the
to like your unfolding without a doubt
and to actually hear that listen to that
and still do the thing that you're
called to do but do it in a way that
really pays attention to the danger of
it that pays attention to the fact that
you might get caught up in it that that
pays attention to the fact that that
people might attack you because you
self-promote and how are you going to be
undefended in that
situation is really an important part of
the process so it's it's you're
following the call but you're also
listening to the to the wisdom in the in
the and the
resistance yeah yeah it sounds to me
like the promoting myself while being
humble involves like the the question
for me is really how do I promote myself
without taking on new ident identities
and without taking on new identities by
defending when people start to see and
and challenge me in my yeah as I take up
my space and to to the earlier question
about how do we be humble yet take up
our full space it sounds like to me
being humble is taking up our full space
like how how humble would it be for me
to decide that the Universe has the the
order of the universe is wrong and that
I didn't like
that it shouldn't actually show up fully
like for some reason I am in
particular not supposed to show up
somehow like how could I decide that it
for me it's
also like it's not following your
calling right it's
like to take up your full space requires
you to follow the calling you can't take
up your full space and and and be doing
it for yourself you're doing it for
something Beyond you and so that is the
humility yeah absolutely yeah it's so it
is so seemingly contradictory until you
feel it until you're in that position of
actually taking up your
space actually being fully empowered
that you realize that like there's it's
not you the great ex example of this is
if you've listened to artists there's so
many artists who say say this they're
like somebody says oh wow what a great
Masterpiece you created and they say it
just moved through me it just came
through
me it's like or there's a Healer named
Fool's Crow I think he was Lakota and he
talked about he isn't doing the healing
that he's like a hollow bone and his job
is just to keep the bone clear of dirt
and then the healing moves through him
through him like through that channel
and his job is just to clean the channel
it's it's all those things it's the the
humility is when you're actually in that
space you realize it's not
you it's it's moving through you and and
it's a deep humility and and there's
literally a visceral experience of
having things move through
you in it it's it's uh like somebody as
in a great example this is somebody
gives you a compliment and you go no no
no or you don't let it in all of that is
ego none of that is humility humility is
when that compliment moves all the way
through you and cleans the dirt out of
your out of your channel it's like whack
whack whack whack whack it destroys your
ego if you let a good compliment move
all the way through you it just takes
out your ego that it it's that's the
feeling of letting it all move through
you and then there then it's really hard
to see what you are yeah except for yeah
I love I love I love that example
cleaning the dirt out of the
yeah thank you Edmond that was a really
good
question uh
I okay our next one comes from
Alex Alex
asks uh or Alex says I can use humility
as a way to hide sometimes this is
playing it safe professionally other
times by not leaning into relationships
that want more of me I've been told this
and can at times understand
intellectually but I've struggled to
feel it enough to change my behaviors or
beliefs any advice for how to move
through
this
um yeah let's say um a man has a a
father who's really
abusive and doesn't actually isn't
attuned to or listening to the
Sun so the question Alex is what is the
humble behavior from the Sun
is it to make themselves small and back
away is it to stand up and fight and
rebel like what's the humble
behavior and if a son is raised in that
environment then they might take that
humility and they might use it to hide
from other relationships because
relationships were very early on defined
as something that was hurtful and
abusive or they might make themselves
small in a job so that they don't get
noticed so that they don't get
attacked so the question is if you if
you have if you if you're talking to a
12-year-old kid who has an abusive
father who's not
attuned and they say how do I act humble
here what's the answer that you give
them right and one of the things that
you might notice is go make yourself
small doesn't feel like humility
right right yeah I feel like my my
answer would be whatever is required to
take care of
themselves right isn't that a
fascinating thing that like humility can
actually require self-care and in fact
that is exactly what it
requires you'll notice people who
actually have a deep sense of humility
are very good at taking care of them
themselves
generally MH and so and it's also
there's also humility that's in stepping
into the scary
piece because like if it's
like if I'm going to take on the student
that I don't want to it's because I'm
scared but I'm called to do it
if Gandhi's like I'm going to take on
the British Empire you bet he's
scared
you bet you know C he knows certain
things are going to happen he's going to
get prison he's going to get beaten he's
going to be tortured whatever he's like
of course there's fear there and
so the only reason you do it is because
you you're not protecting
yourself and you're not being defensive
protective of yourself you you might
protect yourself but you're not
defending and protecting yourself you're
saying this thing that I'm following
this cause this um way of living this
vision This Love that I'm following is
worth me offering myself up to some sort
of annihilation so that I can find the
part of myself that can't be
annihilated
yeah great
and thank you
Alex all right our next one comes from
David and David says I was taught a form
of extreme humility as child to the
extent that it cut off certain
directions in life like acting and
Performing and made me mistrust or
despise people who are more expressive
and open how can I transform my
experience of that wound into a healthy
form of
humility beautiful
question is a great
question DAV it's gonna be
uncomfortable it's going to be
uncomfortable that's what I'm going to
say like find the joy of expressing
yourself
that that's that is the quickest
absolute quickest way to do it is to
find the joy of expressing yourself find
the joy of making yourself big and find
that in making yourself big that you
disappear that's the quickest way to do
it and it's not just big in like go out
and learn how to do improv big it's big
as in when you're talking to your wife
or your boss make yourself
big allow yourself to fully uh be in
that space as Edmund was talking about
fully take up your rightful
space and notice
how how your ego gets shooken and starts
getting eroded in that process and
that's what's going to be the
discomfort you had something to you had
an
idea yeah well what one thing one
observation I had was that this question
really kind of highlights sort of the
societal cyclical element of this where
David was taught an extreme form of
humility or he was taught a definition
of humility and a value system around it
that made him then mistrust and despise
people who
were expressive and open and so I also
see like side of not a very sorry toor
sorry to interrupt not a very humble
thing to despise people who are open to
be taught to despise people who are open
is judgment is not
humility right so that's that's often
times where people people will say hey
you should be humble what they really
mean is there's a feeling out there that
I'm uncomfortable with please don't make
me feel it but anyway sorry to to
interrupt yeah go ahead yeah so so I
guess another side of the freedom here
is in is for David could be
in just noticing in the then like loving
that mistrust and the the despising like
loving the part of himself that that has
that mistrust and just really inquiring
into what's underneath that and what is
what is uncomfortable what would be
uncomfortable about loving someone who's
more expressive and
open yeah and what shows up in the way
of that love and that's that's that
would be beautiful uh ground for
exploration
yeah one other thought here David is
um who's taking up more space the person
who loves the expressive person or the
person who hates and despises the
expressive
person like who who's
actually which which of those two
actions is more
[Music]
humble yeah I'll just leave David to
simmer in that one for now thank you
David beautiful
question
and uh next one is from
agnesa ah hey
aie and she
asks how can one experience humility in
its full
intensity
oh Del the same way that you experience
silence
it the intensity is more in the length
of time than it is in in the moment the
moment is very soft and gentle but it's
the length of time that really is the
intense
part be in silence for 10 days you'll
experience the intensity be humility be
in humility for an extended period of
time and you'll the intensity it'll just
rip
away your
ego while while most likely people are
calling you very egoic and
arrogant it's typically how it
works yeah which and and receiving
receiving that flock will also wear away
your identity and yes point to the yes
yes point to what you're
defending y
exactly okay next question from Slava
how do you show humility in your
coaching and
courses and what are some steps one can
take to see humility Beyond Authority
and arrogance of Fu Joe your Twitter
handle I struggle with us a lot yet keep
coming back again and
again
oh that's funny the the [__] you Joe um
the [__] you Joe handle came
from what I noticed when I was doing
live sessions was every time I got in
front of somebody who was like
practicing View and I'd go around the
room they' get self-conscious like they
had to do it right and so I one of the
hacks that I found um to get so somebody
wouldn't be self-conscious is if they
just looked at me and said [__] you Joe
and then all of a sudden they wouldn't
be they'd laugh they' get out that
little anger that's behind the
self-consciousness and they could like
go back to so so it was an invitation
to to take anger out on me as a way for
them not to be self-conscious and that's
where the [__] you Joe handle came from
so I don't I don't know the assumption
that you have Slava behind the [__] you
Joe handle um and how that may or may
not be uh humble but I'd love to hear
about that um in general how does the
humility happen in the work
itself
um there's there's two ways in which it
does one is that um when we teach like
old students in Master Class the people
who are like in all the groups that have
are being trained to be in all the
groups one of the the most important
thing of training and facilitation and
in coaching is that you have to be
invisible that people get to project
whatever they want on you they get to
project that you're an [__] that
you're the [__] dad that you're the mom
who doesn't love them or that you're the
greatest person in the whole world your
Perfection like you have to allow all
those projections for their healing and
not get caught in it so it's allowing it
but allowing it to move right through
you and not take on the like yeah I do
have all the answers because because
none of us do and or yeah I am that
[__] Dad I am that Authority figure
and you can't join them in the in the
routine or the pattern that they're
playing out but your job is to receive
that all the way let that move all the
way through you so the very basis of
what we do in any facilitation and
coaching is allowing yourself to be a
mirror which means there's no you there
and so that's that's the that's how it
happens that's the most basic part which
it happens the other part is that you do
things that are uncomfortable all the
time in this work um you know if you've
seen my rapid fire coaching I will say
some deeply [__] uncomfortable things
to people because it it's the their
their potential Freedom that's on the
line there and and when I do that I'm
taking a risk like I often pucker when I
say those things because oh I'm I'm
inviting a potential attack I'm inviting
potentially somebody to judge me or to
say that I've treated them poorly or
whatever it is um
and it seems to work out most of the
time not all the time but it seems to
work out most of the time for the
benefit of others and so it's easier to
do that but especially at the beginning
of doing this work it was
really like I I would I would be my
nervous system would be shaken after
sessions because I said things that were
really scary to say because it was
because it was the thing I was called to
say um so that that's how it works
that's that's how the humility Works in
this
in this game
yeah yeah and and you do have to be
reminded like or remind yourself or
allow yourself to be surrounded by
people who make fun of you I think like
one of my
biggest Joys is to be surrounded by
people who make fun of me on a regular
basis or I make fun of myself like with
a [__] you Joe handle
um because that's something that really
helps in keeping it level when you know
there's some group of people out there
who think that
you're I don't some authority figure or
somebody who's going to judge them or
some yeah or somebody who whose approval
they need or
whatever like allows that to you know
and having two teenage daughters does
that really really
well they make fun of you all the
time yeah
cool cool all right so
this will be our last question this is
from Max Max asks how have your that is
Brett and Joe's how have Brett and Joe's
relationship to humility changed over
time and has the growth of the AOA
community in following had any effect on
this yeah what has changed over time
just our what of humility
relationship relationship to
humility how's our relationship with
humility
yeah my my my relationship to humility
is that it is far more important to me
the bigger the the bigger
the the bigger this gets I don't think I
would be here otherwise I don't I don't
think I could do this
otherwise right like if I thought that I
was responsible for this if I thought
that I
was in control of all of this it would
be the pressure would be something that
I wouldn't want to live with and I
wouldn't the only way that I can do it
is to see it as a gift as a calling as a
as
a as the thing that the space that I'm
supposed to take up and that it's beyond
me that what's happening here is beyond
me that doesn't mean that I'm not
responsible doesn't mean that I don't
have like empowerment in the situation
oddly but it it does mean that like you
know ashes to ashes dust to dust it
comes and it goes on its own it has an
intelligence that I am that I'm
following far rather it's it's it's like
I have the humility of not thinking I'm
the river but that I am navigating the
river and if I thought I was the river I
would be out of here there nothing I'd
want to be a part
of yeah speaking speaking for myself I
feel
like
like for example starting a podcast with
my teacher has been a a a different
Journey like ear early on there was far
more ego in it I was like oh yeah cool
like I'm doing a podcast with Joe [__]
yeah and then as the community and
following started to grow it would bring
me up against you know a lot of amazing
surface area to do the work noticing
where I was getting attached to that
noticing where uh it seemed at times my
development would even slow down because
I was like oh now I'm seen publicly so I
have to have somehow I have to be there
already and yeah uh I'm now I'm
representing something which is
absolutely not what this work is about
representing some identity of perfection
but it was my that pattern in me
definitely has like has come up over the
course of this journey and uh and of
course
in in the combination of those phenomena
occurring and people starting to come up
to me and recognize my voice and talk to
me and having these tools and having
this work uh and this community I've uh
I've been able to loosen a lot of that
and just feel much more of the grace and
the the joy of it going back to the
early definition of humility that that
Joe brought up there's this there's a
deeper Contex
that I get to experience now with with
less
to with less to defend and less to uh
less of an image to
uphold and in the way that I show up on
the
podcast and the journey
continues yeah what I what I loved about
what you just said Brett was that you Ed
that word grace and it reminds me of
being on that chat the chat the other
day where somebody was you know one of
the people that we were working with was
like going into like a little bit of
self-abuse and announcing it around
being a part of this group and thinking
that they didn't deserve to be there how
did I get there kind of thing and um and
my response was and I remember when I
responded I just was balling I just
started crying when I responded and my
response was the same way I [__] got
here through Grace
M and and that's that's probably the
best way to describe humility is the
recognition that it's like every
thought every moment of gratitude
every trial is
Grace yeah wow well that's a great way
to wrap this one
up yeah thank you so much Joe thank you
everybody for all your questions yeah
this this is fun thanks thanks for the
questions I appreciate them awesome yeah
and you don't have to wait for us to
invite questions to ask questions you
can always reach out to us on Twitter
there is fuore Joe Hudson there isart
OFA comp and I am Eric Kistler and you
can also just hit us up on the website
use our contact form our Circle
forum and uh till next time okay all
right bye Brett
see you Joe see you
everybody